# Advanced-Machine-Learnig-Project
The project of our group aims to explore the causal relationships between unemployment rate, inflation value, and GDP using Pragmatic Causal Feature Learning (PCFL) algorithm and confounder identification-free (CIF) method. First, we collected the unemployment rate, inflation value and GDP of five countries, including China, France, USA, Denmark, and Germany. Then, we analyzed the data by calculating their correlation coefficient. We also determined the causal relationship using the directed acyclic graph and Additive Noise Model. After that, we use two methods, CIF method and PCFL method, to further explain the casual relationship. In CIF method, we built a model which not only can forecast the GDP when given the inflation value and unemployment rate, but also can ignore the effect from confounders. PCFL method shows how much effect each factor has on the GDP by identifying coarsened variables.Ultimately, we concluded that the unemployment rate has a causal effect on inflation rate and GDP. Also, inflation rate has a causal effect on GDP. In addition, two models were set up to explain how unemployment rate and inflation rate affect the GDP. 

We collect GDP, inflation rate and unemployment rate data for some countries from 1994 to 2021. The included countries are China, the United States, Germany, Denmark and France. In our project, GDP measures the monetary value of final goods and services produced in a country in a given period of time. Inflation rate refers to an overall increase in the Consumer Price Index (CPI), which is a weighted average of prices for different goods. Unemployment rate is measured in numbers of unemployed people as a percentage of the labor force. 
To visualize the relationship between unemployment rate, inflation value and GDP, we first drew the line charts of each country and calculated the correlation coefficient. According to the graphs and coefficient, it is easy to find out that unemployment rate and inflation value have negative correlation with GDP, though the correlation is not that strong. Due to the page limits, we only display the line charts which typically show the relationship.
